Python variable names in Python.
You can name your variables almost anything you like.
It can have a short name like x and y, or a more descriptive name like age, car name, total volume.
But there are some rules we need to follow.
Rule number one A variable name must start with the letter or the underscore character.
Rule number two A variable name cannot start with a number.
Rule number three A variable name can only contain alphanumeric characters and underscores.
A to z 0 to 9 and underscore.
Rule number four.
Variable names are case sensitive and her age.
Lowercase and uppercase are different variables.
And finally, rule number five a variable name cannot be any of the Python keywords like if else while
pass continue because there are a Python reserved words.
Let's see some legal and illegal variable names.
Here.
The first variable contains just a letter.
The second contain an underscore at the middle.
the third.
It can start with the underscore.
The fourth variable contain lowercase and uppercase.
The five variable just uppercase.
And here the last variable contain a number at the end and at the middle.
Let's see some illegal variable names first, because start with the number variable cannot start with
a number, but it can start with the underscore.
The second because contain a hyphen and it's considered by Python like an operator, like a multiplication
or a plus operator.
And the third because contain space.
Remember that variable names are case sensitive.
And here age with lowercase and uppercase are a different variable.
Let's see that I execute only this part of code via PyCharm.
I select the part of code which I Executed.
Execute selection in Python console.
Here there are three variables and each variable contains a different value.
Ten, 11 and 12.
Next multi words.
Multi words.
Variable names.
Variable names with more than one word can be difficult to read.
There are several techniques you can use to make them more readable.
First camel case.
Each word except the first start with a capital letter, except the first.
Each word starts with a capital letter.
The second each word starts with a capital letter.
Even the first and third snake case.
Each word is separated by an underscore character.
Here we have three words, and between each word we add an underscore character.
Now you know how to name your variables in Python.
And in the next video we will see how assign multiple value.